how are you guys doing i hope all of you
guys are doing all right mubarak to all
of you
this is just a follow-up really on the
video that i don't know abdul rahman
hassan instead of
hassan on the footballing incident and a
lot of brothers have come to me and said
why don't you speak to him privately you
know you've had him on the podcast
before you you've got some kind of
relationship with him why don't you
speak to him privately the truth of the
matter is ever since i well
i'm not saying this was the exact um
point of demarcation but i'll be honest
with you guys
ever since i asked him to come speak
about the kalam issue the philosophy
issue which he said that you know
he had his views on philosophy and we
responded to it for those who know
um he didn't like i wasn't able to
communicate with him privately let's
just put it that way
even if i had uh spoken to people that
we have mutual friends and so on
or people that he knows and i know and
so on so i've just not been able to do
it so if
he opens up a pathway of private
communication then potentially these
kinds of uh
public expositions will be less relevant
or needed
but more importantly that the modus
operandi if you like was
the way of operating for for them and
quite frankly for for us as well for a
lot of the time
has been that if you say something
publicly which is academically
incorrect then quite frankly it's the
the rights
of the people the public audience to to
have that correctly
to correct it correct correct it
publicly as well
um and so i just want to point out that
i don't really have any hard feelings or
anything like that to what other man has
just i don't have a pathway to private
communication
room if i did have that path i think it
potentially would have um
maybe uh been a different situation
altogether
having said that now i i wanted to kind
of why did i make a big deal out of this
why did i make a video about this in the
first place
the reason why is because as i say i
think this issue
it causes it's a slippery slope
situation and i deal with youth
in this country and in the west and in
other parts of the world
all the time and i can tell you
something we as youth
living in the west have very limited
outlets
ourselves we have martial arts we have
sports we have only very limited outlets
now when someone of some kind of
authority
and even if it's pseudo authority with
all due respect to him but
even if it's some kind of authority um
who seemingly
is someone who has learned the religion
of islam and is speaking on behalf of it
comes out and tells people you know that
football is
i mean this is what he he was saying
it's actually worse than the major sins
and
before i continue i do want you to see
that video because i think it's actually
shocking it is actually shocking when
you think about this
when do people see this or young people
see this they
feel entrapped they feel claustrophobic
so i want to i want to look at this
video and come back
podcast we did yeah we've done a podcast
on it the form that it can become
what's the bare minimum
as you guys have seen there bro guys
honestly to be honest with you this is
ana azam i am making the claim today
that this is not only a hatha
this is not only a mistake this is
actually incorrect teaching of
and this is their bread and butter okay
listen to me carefully i know you're
watching this
100 you're watching this okay i know you
don't speak to me privately no problem
i'm extending my hand that we can have
very fruitful conversations as we have
in the past privately
um but this kind of rhetoric
i'm going to tell you very clearly it's
absolutely problematic
okay and i respect you as a man i
respect you as a person of knowledge
you've studied you've spent so much time
of your life studying
but you've you've totally missed the
market and
i'll tell you why when you say that
it's worse than the major sins
this is to say that the entailments
of football the intelligence of playing
football managing football overseeing a
football match
uh allowing any of that kind of thing
the entailments not the thing itself
is worse than killing somebody
let that sink in for a second is it
worse than killing somebody is it worse
than a man
committing zinna when he's married or a
woman committing sinner when she's
married
the intelligence of football on this
world view
is worse than sorry to say had one
someone's wife
gone and cheated on him with his friend
or something like that this is what we
you are
this is the hierarchization of sins that
you want us to kind of uh
understand now i'm not saying shirk
isn't worse than all those things of
course
of course we are saying this is not
shirk
and you and you telling the people that
this is a kind of
kind of uh
because it's a form
of it's kuffar distortion of the
religion of islam
you're you're mocking you are i'm not
gonna use the word mocking i take that
back i strike that from the record
you are trivializing okay number one the
major sins and you are
misapplying what it is to do
kufrin shirk even in the even in the
minor forms and we must be clear he's
not saying he's
not saying that he's not saying someone
who plays football as a disbeliever
yet he is saying it's worse than the
major sins
i i find it so problematic the reason
why it's wrong what you're saying is not
even ishta had
and we're not going to accept this and
how could there be head
on something which is our idi anyways
like this if something is
creedal why do we need to do it she had
on it it should be so clear for the
people to see
okay the reason why it's not ish jihad
and this is not acceptable is simply
because
somehow the referee or whatever it may
be is at
is against us
and we are preferring this hukum over
the
law otherwise let me give you in a
scenario and i'll make this very simple
you use teach classes right
and say for example is someone in your
class and you're in a muslim country
they're two people have a fight two
people have a physical fight
and one person breaks the bone of the
other person you say both of you are
suspended from my class
okay which is the equivalent of a red
card are you doing
no you're not because you're not saying
this suspension is a replacement
for the hud and the analogy is perfect
and there's no difference between the
two things it only becomes
allah when it's a substitutional
replacement and the person
prefers it to understand the person
prefers it
to the hokum that allah has sent down
this is such an error of judgment that
you can't just i'm
kind of i'm really sorry but you can't
just scurry away and think oh well
it's a matter of wish to head we're not
going to mention it we're not going to
talk about it we're not going to retract
anything
and we're just going to move away this
needs to be retracted because
with this you are confusing young people
and
something which should be the bread and
butter which is is absolutely wrong
so all that is acceptable at this point
to save
kind of not your public reputation to
save or anything like that
it's just to save the academic amena
you know that you've distorted here is a
retraction
say this i've taught this wrong come to
the conclusion i was wrong about this
and there's nothing there's nothing
there's nothing wrong with being wrong i
mean we're all wrong will i
one more thing i want to add recently he
said something's effective we shouldn't
be talking he talked about the intellect
in a manner that was like we when the
quran sunnah and the salaf we kind of
lead them to the intellect
when you're applying you need two things
that's why the quran says
we gave sulaiman understanding of it
are two different things and what i'm
saying is what would you respect right
if if you're misapplying akam which are
basic for even lay audiences to be able
to see
and reason then imagine when it comes to
massage
like imagine now the ummah has to rely
on your judgment to do to dr on person
ex or person why a person said
if you are making such blunders on on
issues of football or something like
that
what about when you're making tv out of
this person you're making a cam day
one person extra person why a person
said now tell me
let's be honest to what extent do you
think people will take
your fam your understanding seriously
and to what extent do you expect us to
why should we if this is how you're
misapplying things for the lay audiences
to see
i think allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has
made this very clear
and he's made the lay audiences kind of
exposed to this
to re to let people see that yo
or applied is actually not on point
and it does require treatment i don't
think it's
arrogant for me to say to you look we've
been working
with people mashaya and so on for very
long time
and my uh uh you know
offer to you is that we have fruitful
discussions in private
and that we can we can help you with
critically thinking so that it can help
you with
cam it will help you sharpen the mind so
this applies this doesn't apply this is
a contradiction it's not a contradiction
um this kind of thing i genuinely think
i will lie
and i put this offer to you and to
people like you okay
just put your just can't reach out to me
and i will
take my time out we talk you can teach
me something because
there's a lot to learn from me brother a
lot to learn and i'll tell you a few
things and that will be it
but please you know retract this
this disgusting sorry not i'm only
strong words
this abominable this is a strong word
this sub uh off the mark
please retract it for the sake of the
youth who need an outlet
seller for youth in this country and
other types of youth who listen to you
please don't make life difficult for
them and
start you know appreciating the the
nuances of